# A Novel-Debugger-on-windows-based-application
To handle the error code it is an easy task. Like everything else errors can be encountered in codes, software and systems and to handle those errors at a small level is easier task for a skilleduser but when the code length is in millions of lines the problem aggravates. That’s where we need a tool that may point the user straight to the scene of incident.Debuggers provide a whole host of features and functionality that are useful when assessing software for defects. Most come with the ability to run, pause, or step a process;set breakpoints; manipulate registers and memory; and catch exceptions that occur inside the target process.   Here we introduce two types of debugger white box debugger and black box debugger. Most development platforms, or IDEs, contain a built-in debugger that enables developers to trace through their source code with a high degree of control. This is called white-box debugging. While these debuggers are useful during development, a reverse engineer  or bug hunter, rarely has the source code available and must employ black- box debuggers for tracing target applications. A black-box debugger assumes that the software under inspection is completely opaque to the hacker, and the only information available is in a disassembled format. It is important to differentiate two subclasses of black-box debuggers: user mode and kernel mode.   Some examples of debuggers are WinDbg, from Microsoft, and OllyDbg .The main use of the debugger is when a bug is found at any point through the course of execution of a program. So, a need some debugging event is important. These events are breakpoints hits, exception created by the ongoing program and if or any memory violations occurs.  As discussed in the previous slide that the kernel mode is the highest mode of privilege for any user; let us see how. At the kernel level (i.e. the 0th ring of an operating system) a debugger interacts with the registers of the system which is the core of any operation being performed.  States of various registers can be examined
